---
id: '0bb7ccb9-23d2-4cec-9ee9-b36b8ef2a8ac'
title: 'Introducing ‘Portal Only Customers SSO’ Integration to Enhance Your JSM Security and Seamless Customer Access'
description: 'Jira Service Management (JSM) is a powerful service management solution designed to streamline your support processes. However, JSM portals often face the challenge of dealing with spam tickets generated by malicious actors or automated bots, especially if it’s a public-facing platform.'
metaTitle: 'Introducing ‘Portal Only Customers SSO’ Integration to Enhance Your JSM Security and Seamless Customer Access'
metaDescription: 'Jira Service Management (JSM) is a powerful service management solution designed to streamline your support processes. However, JSM portals often face the challenge of dealing with spam tickets generated by malicious actors or automated bots, especially if it’s a public-facing platform.'
keywords: ''
mainButtonLink: ''
mainButtonText: ''
excerpt: 'SSO Integration With Helpdesks allows users with any email domain to log in to JSM customer portals via SSO, preventing spam ticket creation and eliminating the need to add external customers as Jira users.'
thumbnail: '/blog/assets/2023/portal-only-customer-sso-jsm-sso.webp'
createdOn: '2023-06-27'
updatedOn: '2023-06-27'
ogTitle: ''
ogDescription: ''
ogImage:
    url: ''
category: ['solutions', 'atlassian']
tags:
    [
        'SSO', 'Single Sign-On', 'MFA', '2FA', 'Security', 'Provisioning', 'Two-factor Authentication', 'Multi-factor Authentication', 'IAM'
    ]
---

## Introducing ‘Portal Only Customers SSO’ Integration to Enhance Your JSM Security and Seamless Customer Access

“Excellent support team who showed huge dedication to get us set up from start to finish. The app provides us with functionality we can’t get elsewhere and the team have rolled out a number of new features in the short time I have been using the app.”

Always a delight to start off with what our customers have to say, as it keeps us motivated. 

**Let’s Get to the Brass Tacks**

As we know, Jira Service Management (JSM) is a powerful service management solution designed to streamline your support processes. However, JSM portals often face the challenge of dealing with spam tickets generated by malicious actors or automated bots, especially if it’s a public-facing platform. 

Now, by requiring users to authenticate themselves before accessing the Jira portal via Single sign-on (SSO), businesses ensure that only authorized individuals can raise tickets. It’s a simple yet effective way to maintain order and efficiency within your ticketing system. Not only does authentication help prevent the creation of spam tickets, but it also ensures that the tickets raised are legitimate and come from trusted sources. 

That’s just one and probably the major issue but you can’t ignore other pain points such as manual addition of customers to Jira, especially in large numbers, can be a cumbersome task and prone to human errors. You can also add to the list the tedious and time-consuming task of managing direct access control that causes unnecessary delays and loss of productivity.

For that, we’ve come up with [‘SSO Integration With Helpdesks’](https://miniorange.com/atlassian/sso-for-jsm-customers) that will change the game for you. And here’s the best part: you don’t need any prerequisites! Users with any email domains would be able to login via SSO to the customer portals. It provides you with the best of both worlds, prevents spam ticket creation by enabling SSO for external customers and eliminates the need to add them as users in Jira or grant them Atlassian access. Our plugin seamlessly integrates with JSM, elevating its functionality and acts as a valuable extension.

It’s a win-win situation! an extraordinary solution that enables external customers to effortlessly log in to your Jira Service Management portals. Let’s take a look at the features and uncover the benefits that our plugin brings…

### Features Aimed at Efficiency: {#portal-only-sso-features}

Our **‘SSO Integration with Helpdesks’** can enhance the functionality and security of JSM, providing greater flexibility, improved authentication, and more efficient customer management. 

#### Multiple IDP support

With multiple IDP support, we refer to the ability of our plugin to integrate with and authenticate users from multiple Identity Providers. This feature would allow users to choose from different trusted authentication sources when logging into the system.

#### All protocols supported.

Our plugin provides extensive support for all industry-standard protocols such as SAML and OAuth etc. It is built to adapt and deliver optimal performance regardless of the chosen standard thus providing you with a unified and reliable authentication experience. 

#### Organization mapping based on IDP groups and email domains

The plugin automatically assigns customers to specific organizations based on their email domains and IDP groups. This helps to streamline support workflows and ensures better organization and management of customer accounts and their associated support tickets. With the use of our plugin, it becomes easier to keep track of customers’ tickets and communicate the resolution or support.

#### Control access to portals based on IDP groups and organizations

Administrators can manage and regulate entry by leveraging the IDP groups and organizations associated with user identities. Enforcing access permissions and restrictions, granting or denying entry to users based on their assigned group or organization becomes much easier and ensures secure and tailored access to the Jira portal.

#### Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) on top of SSO

If you are looking to add an extra layer of security on top of Single Sign-On (SSO) that would require users to provide two forms of verification before they can access the portal, you can enable ‘Two-Factor Authentication’ using our **inhouse brokering solution.** This will ensure that even if someone gains access to a user’s login credentials, they still need the second factor to successfully log in. 

That’s not all, in addition to the above mentioned, our plugin offers a **range of configurations** that can enhance your experience. You have the flexibility to configure the visibility of specific fields for individual tickets through ‘**portal fields**’. ‘**Customizing domains**’ becomes effortless, and ‘**managing user accounts**’ becomes more streamlined with detailed information on logged-in users and ‘**audit logs**’ based on user data. Furthermore, if you encounter any difficulties, our ‘**quick troubleshooting tab**’ provides prompt access to possible solutions, ensuring a smooth and efficient user experience. 

### Benefits It Brings to The Table: {#benefits-of-jsm-sso}

Integrating our portal only customer SSO functionality with your JSM provides a robust solution to counter spam or fake ticket generation.

**Spam Tickets Prevention:** Say goodbye to ticket overload! With our powerful plugin, wave goodbye to spam tickets and embrace smooth sailing for your JSM workflow. Keep your focus on the real issues that matter. 

**Direct Access Control:** You could assign groups to your users in your IdP and the access to the portals could be managed accordingly.

**Restricted Portal:** Step into a world of controlled efficiency! Our plugin works seamlessly with restricted portals where only admins or user agents can add customers. Bid farewell to unauthorized meddling and savour the peace of mind. 

**Automated Customer Additions:** Be done with manual labour! Our add-on automates the process of adding customers, freeing up your valuable time and eliminating errors. Say hello to seamless customer onboarding with just a few clicks..

What you do need to remember is that each business entity’s implementation of SSO may vary depending on its chosen identity provider and specific requirements. Therefore, it’s essential to consult the documentation and resources provided by our SSO solution for detailed instructions on integrating SSO with Jira Service Management.

### What We Offer… {#what-we-offer}

Is an SSO integration with JSM, that not only bolsters security but also enhances user convenience. Say goodbye to the noise of spam and hello to a harmonious support ecosystem. With our SSO integration, you protect your JSM portal, gain tighter control over user access, and unleash the full potential of efficient customer support. 

It’s time to level up your JSM game and embrace the power of our ‘SSO Integration with Helpdesks.’ So, why wait?  miniOrange JSM SSO solution compliments your Atlassian product so that you get to deliver an exceptional user experience. Welcome a smoother, more efficient customer engagement and support.

Reach out to us at **support-atlassian@miniorange.atlassian.net** or raise a support ticket by [clicking here](https://miniorange.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/2).

### Additional Resources

Check out more Atlassian App Security products by miniOrange,

-   [Atlassian SSO and User Sync](https://miniorange.com/atlassian/)
-   [Jira SAML SSO](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/xecurifyinc1630054845227.jira_saml_sso_atlassian_final?tab=overview)
-   [2FA/MFA for Jira Apps](https://miniorange.com/atlassian/two-factor-authentication-2fa-for-atlassian-data-center-dc-and-cloud/)
-   [Confluence 2FA/MFA](https://miniorange.com/atlassian/confluence-two-factor-authentication-2fa)
-   [AWS services CASB](https://blog.miniorange.com/aws-service-casb-security-solution/)